#Find man pages

1. Home

POSIX Commands (1p) ____________________ (BUTTON) Search man

* Prolog * Synopsis * Description * Options * Operands * Stdin * Input
Files * Environment Variables * Asynchronous Events * Stdout * Stderr *
Output Files * Extended Description * Exit Status * Consequences of
Errors * Application Usage * Examples * Rationale * Future Directions *
See Also * Copyright * Info

man - Man Page

display system documentation

Prolog

This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual. The Linux
implementation of this interface may differ (consult the corresponding
Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the interface may
not be implemented on Linux.

Synopsis

man [-k] name...

Description

The man utility shall write information about each of the name operands.
If name is the name of a standard utility, man at a minimum shall write
a message describing the syntax used by the standard utility, its
options, and operands. If more information is available, the man utility
shall provide it in an implementation-defined manner.

An implementation may provide information for values of name other than
the standard utilities. Standard utilities that are listed as optional
and that are not supported by the implementation either shall cause a
brief message indicating that fact to be displayed or shall cause a full
display of information as described previously.

Options

The man utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of
POSIX.1-2017, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines.

The following option shall be supported:

-k Interpret name operands as keywords to be used in searching a
utilities summary database that contains a brief purpose entry for each
standard utility and write lines from the summary database that match
any of the keywords. The keyword search shall produce results that are
the equivalent of the output of the following command:

grep -Ei ' name name

This assumes that the summary-database is a text file with a single
entry per line; this organization is not required and the example using
grep -Ei is merely illustrative of the type of search intended. The
purpose entry to be included in the database shall consist of a terse
description of the purpose of the utility.

Operands

The following operand shall be supported:

name A keyword or the name of a standard utility. When -k is not
specified and name does not represent one of the standard utilities, the
results are unspecified.

Stdin

Not used.

Input Files

None.

Environment Variables

The following environment variables shall affect the execution of man:

LANG Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that
are unset or null. (See the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1-2017,
Section 8.2, Internationalization Variables for the precedence of
internationalization variables used to determine the values of locale
categories.)

LC_ALL If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all
the other internationalization variables.

LC_CTYPE Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of
bytes of text data as characters (for example, single-byte as opposed to
multi-byte characters in arguments and in the summary database). The
value of LC_CTYPE need not affect the format of the information written
about the name operands.

LC_MESSAGES Determine the locale that should be used to affect the
format and contents of diagnostic messages written to standard error and
informative messages written to standard output.

NLSPATH Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of
LC_MESSAGES.

PAGER Determine an output filtering command for writing the output to a
terminal. Any string acceptable as a command_string operand to the sh -c
command shall be valid. When standard output is a terminal device, the
reference page output shall be piped through the command. If the PAGER
variable is null or not set, the command shall be either more or another
paginator utility documented in the system documentation.

Asynchronous Events

Default.

Stdout

The man utility shall write text describing the syntax of the utility
name, its options and its operands, or, when -k is specified, lines from
the summary database. The format of this text is implementation-defined.

Stderr

The standard error shall be used for diagnostic messages, and may also
be used for informational messages of unspecified format.

Output Files

None.

Extended Description

None.

Exit Status

The following exit values shall be returned:

0 Successful completion.

>0 An error occurred.

Consequences of Errors

Default.

The following sections are informative.

Application Usage

None.

Examples

None.

Rationale

It is recognized that the man utility is only of minimal usefulness as
specified. The opinion of the standard developers was strongly divided
as to how much or how little information man should be required to
provide. They considered, however, that the provision of some portable
way of accessing documentation would aid user portability. The arguments
against a fuller specification were:

* Large quantities of documentation should not be required on a system
that does not have excess disk space.

* The current manual system does not present information in a manner
that greatly aids user portability.

* A “better help system” is currently an area in which vendors feel that
they can add value to their POSIX implementations.

The -f option was considered, but due to implementation differences, it
was not included in this volume of POSIX.1-2017.

The description was changed to be more specific about what has to be
displayed for a utility. The standard developers considered it
insufficient to allow a display of only the synopsis without giving a
short description of what each option and operand does.

The “purpose” entry to be included in the database can be similar to the
section title (less the numeric prefix) from this volume of POSIX.1-2017
for each utility. These titles are similar to those used in historical
systems for this purpose.

See mailx for rationale concerning the default paginator.

The caveat in the LC_CTYPE description was added because it is not a
requirement that an implementation provide reference pages for all of
its supported locales on each system; changing LC_CTYPE does not
necessarily translate the reference page into another language. This is
equivalent to the current state of LC_MESSAGES in
POSIX.1-2008—locale-specific messages are not yet a requirement.

The historical MANPATH variable is not included in POSIX because no
attempt is made to specify naming conventions for reference page files,
nor even to mandate that they are files at all. On some implementations
they could be a true database, a hypertext file, or even fixed strings
within the man executable. The standard developers considered the
portability of reference pages to be outside their scope of work.
However, users should be aware that MANPATH is implemented on a number
of historical systems and that it can be used to tailor the search
pattern for reference pages from the various categories (utilities,
functions, file formats, and so on) when the system administrator
reveals the location and conventions for reference pages on the system.

The keyword search can rely on at least the text of the section titles
from these utility descriptions, and the implementation may add more
keywords. The term “section titles” refers to the strings such as: man —
Display system documentation ps — Report process status

Future Directions

None.

See Also

more

The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1-2017, Chapter 8, Environment
Variables, Section 12.2, Utility Syntax Guidelines

Copyright

Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1-2017, Standard for Information Technology --
Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, 2018 Edition, Copyright (C) 2018 by the
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open
Group. In the event of any discrepancy between this version and the
original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The
Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can
be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear in this page are most
likely to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files
to man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .

Info

2017 IEEE/The Open Group POSIX Programmer's Manual

* Home * Blog * About * Twitter * Email

[INS: :INS]
